NPC, GameObject settings scriptable, triggered by events (like quest, attacking,
using, entering its range & more) (medium)

Quote:  
I assigned it a medium priority, since I think it's not that easy to implement,
and the game is relatively playable without it. As you probably know, there are
a lot more quests than the four types supported by wad's emu (kill, deliver,
speak to - which is more like action, since you can also "speak" to gameobjects
to trigger end of a quest - and explore). Those include

* speaking to a NPC to get a quest, after which the NPC changes its state from
friendly to enemy (faction maybe?) and starts attacking you, having to bring him
to like 25% of his health to end the quest (carefull, if the player dies or the
25% health is aquired, the npc should revert to its original state and return to
its location, and the quest should be completed, respectively player-dropped and
reaquired)

* spawning/deleting NPC/gameobject on event (quest finished/started, place
reached, if having a specific prerequisit - like quest, skill, reputation etc).
Example: for some quests, other NPCs teleport to your location after killing
someone to deliver your quest reward, for another a quest completion triggers
the spawning of food (GameObject probably) in a boat, also a giant (NPC) spawns
nearby and comes (waypoint/script) to the boat and starts eating, after
finishing eating (GO food deleted) goes (waypoint) to the first location and
dissapears (NPC deleted)

* NPC casting spell on event

* NPC waypoints, also triggerable by event or not (for escort quests etc.)

* NPC status changing (there are quests where a NPC is lost and shall follow you
- Human Pet maybe? -, your quest being to bring him to a specific location, that
will trigger the end of quest...)

* Hate table change on event (not sure if this is the function, but there is a
quest where a bomb exploding on a train wagon causes almost all the kobolds in
the area to run there... might as well be waypoint triggering, I don't know)

* Guards action triggering (if an "enemy" - faction or maybe reputation based -
npc or player enters his area of awareness, trigger basic hate - 1, as for
pulling - for him, causing the guard to attack/assist)

* NPC morphing (model changing) 

Of course, more examples can be given, and I'm sure I haven't covered them all
